# Automated-farming
Agriculture is a way of life. 
Every living things require food for its survival, and the food has to come from a source. 
In the present scenario, everyone is focused on improving their life standards and has no time in taking care of plants. The motive behind this project is to implement an automated plant nourishing system, which can cover almost all demands of the corresponding plants with only very low human intervention.

Electrochemical Sensors provide key information required in precision agriculture: pH and soil nutrient levels. Sensor electrodes work by detecting specific ions in the soil. Currently, sensors mounted to specially designed “sleds” help gather, process, and map soil chemical data.
Mechanical Sensors measure soil compaction or “mechanical resistance.” The sensors use a probe that penetrates the soil and records resistive forces through use of load cells or strain gauges. A similar form of this technology is used on large tractors to predict pulling requirements for ground engaging equipment. Tensiometers, like Honeywell FSG15N1A, detect the force used by the roots in water absorption and are very useful for irrigation interventions

The data is collected from the various sensors deployed in the farm and the data is uploaded to the cloud for computing. The thresholds of different parameters of the plants are set and this can be monitored from the collected data.the need of the differents plants can be met using this system.The soil conditions can be checked at regular intervals and the texture and other parametsrs of the soil can be controlled.The user can monitor the farm from a remote place and can control different paramets of the farm. The data accumulated over qa long period of time can be used to train the system and the system can be self learning using machine learning technoiques.
